# Task-Manager

# Task Description
The Task Manager Project is a Python program created for the Hyperion Development Software Engineering Bootcamp. It assists small businesses in managing tasks for team members by allowing users to create, store, display, and edit tasks and related information in text files. The program includes functions that perform various actions based on user-selected options from a menu

# How It Works
The program allows for the creation, storage, display, and editing of tasks and related information, all of which are stored in text files.
The user will see six functions that have been written to perform certain actions based on options that users will choose from a displayed menu. These 'functions' are basically can take in certain information (i.e a menu choice) and then output various results based on the actions defined in the function.

The main program execution begins by prompting the user to log in using their designated username and password. The program verifies the correctness of the provided details by comparing them to the corresponding entries in the "usernames" and "passwords" lists. In case of an incorrect input (either the username or password), the program displays appropriate error messages, such as "Your username or password is incorrect." The user will be repeatedly prompted to enter their details until they match the information stored in the respective "usernames" and "passwords" lists.

Upon successful login, a confirmation message is displayed, followed by a menu showing various options for the user to choose from. The available options include user registration, task addition, viewing all tasks, viewing tasks assigned specifically to the user, generating reports, and program exit. The "admin" user has an additional option in their menu, enabling them to view statistics. This particular option is not available to other users. Each menu choice is associated with a specific letter that the user can input to select the desired option (e.g., typing 'r' to register a user).

The menu is displayed for users within a 'while' loop and this is done so that after each menu option chosen, the user will return to the main menu, which allows them to make another menu choice if they wish to or to exit the program. For the first four options in the menu, the associated functions (listed in the beginning of the program) are called (brought in to perform certain actions) when the user types in the related letter corresponding to that menu choice. For example, if they type in 'r' to register a user, the first function listed 'reg_user()' is executed. This function prompts the user for input information relating to the new user they want to register, for example they are asked to enter a new username, and then new password. Once the new user information is correct (and doesn't already exist; if they try to register an existing user, an error message is displayed) it is stored in the corresponding 'usernames' and 'passwords' lists within the program. The information is then also written to the appropriate external 'user.txt' text file. A similar process is followed if the user chooses 'a' to add a task from the main menu, except that they are then prompted to enter information related to the task with a series of questions (e.g. "Please enter the task description.") and this information is first added to the appropriate 'tasks' dictionary and then written from the dictionary to the external 'tasks.txt' text file.

If the user selects the third option, "va", to view all tasks, they are not prompted for any input. Instead, all tasks stored in the external "tasks.txt" file are displayed in a clear and numbered format for easy readability. Choosing the fourth option, "vm", to view tasks assigned to the user, only tasks assigned to their specific username are displayed, also numbered. Furthermore, they are given the additional option to edit any of their assigned tasks by typing the corresponding task number or entering "-1" to return to the main menu. If the user decides to edit a task, the program presents various prompts to gather user input.

Opting for the fifth menu choice, "gr", triggers the execution of the sixth function defined earlier in the program. This function generates two new external text files: "task_overview.txt" and "user_overview.txt". These files store relevant information and statistics regarding tasks and user data. Upon successful generation of the reports, the user receives a message indicating the completion of the process.

Only the "admin" user has access to the "ds" option in their menu, which allows them to view the reports generated in the previous menu option. If the previous option has not been chosen yet, the text files are first created, followed by the display of comprehensive reports containing relevant statistics in a clear and readable format.

# How To Use It?
To utilize the Task Manager program, you need to clone the repository containing the program and related text files into a local repository on your computer. This enables you to access and run the program.
Once you have the Task Manager files on your computer and have successfully downloaded Python and/or Notepad, open the IDLE file from the Python programs installed on your PC. This Integrated Development Environment allows you to view and run Python programs. Upon opening the IDLE file, a Python "shell" window will appear. From there, you can navigate to the top toolbar and click on "File" and then "Open" to locate the "taskmanager.py" Python program file. Opening this file will display it in a separate window alongside the shell window.

To execute the program, select "Run" from the top toolbar. You can then interact with the Task Manager program within the shell window. Remember, if you choose to generate reports, the corresponding text files will be created in the same folder as the local repository for this project. You can view these files using Notepad or a similar text editor if desired.

# Credits
Although I primarily worked individually on this program as part of the software engineering bootcamp requirements, the helpful Hyperion Development mentors also reviewed and provided feedback on the program.
